we were obsessed with reducing friction
this was like our constant battle and so
we hired a couple of college interns and
we brought them in and we were like
people are going to push push this
magical one button in the anchor app and
they're gonna say I want to distribute
my podcast and your job is going to be
to do all that same manual stuff
manually but to them it's going to feel
magical and like it happened
automatically I still don't know how
many people know this I think people
think that we had some secret door like
backdoor deal with with Apple for
distribution but we uh we just had
college students making apple podcast
accounts and then submitting like
hundreds of thousands of podcasts
through these accounts and I think that
was a really big part of why we got so
much hosting market share so quickly
because it was such an insane benefit
over the other platforms which otherwise
had been sort of commoditized at that
point
welcome to Lenny's podcast where I
interview world-class product leaders
and growth experts to learn from their
hard-winning experiences building and
growing today's most successful products
today my guest is Maya prohubnick Maya
is spotify's head of product for
podcasting where she oversees product
design and Engineering teams responsible
for building the tools and experiences
for podcasters and their listeners Maya
was also employee number one at anchor
which Spotify acquired about five years
ago which became the core of spotify's
podcasting hosting platform which now
Powers over 75 percent of all new
podcasts created in the world in our
conversation we dig into why Maya is
obsessed with dog fooding and why she
encourages everyone on her team to
create their own podcast she's got four
podcasts of her own which are all very
highly rated and people love we dig into
how she stays productive and organized
in a very hectic senior leadership role
what she's done to allow for anchor to
continue to operate like a startup
within a larger organization also a
bunch of really fun early anchor stories
in including how interns uploaded
podcasts to Apple and Spotify manually
before they could automate that plus how
to find a balance between using your gut
and using data to make decisions also
public speaking tips so much more Maya
is amazing and I'm really excited for
you to hear this episode with that I
bring you Maya prohavnik after a short
word from our sponsors
this episode is brought to you by
sidebar are you looking to land your
next big career move or start your own
thing one of the most effective ways to
create a big leap in your career and
something that worked really well for me
a few years ago is to create a personal
board of directors a trusted peer group
where you can discuss challenges you're
having get career advice and just kind
of gut check how you're thinking about
your work your career and your life this
has been a big trajectory changer for me
but it's hard to build this trusted
group with sidebar senior leaders are
matched with highly vetted private
supportive peer groups to lean on for
unbiased opinions diverse perspectives
and raw feedback everyone has their own
zone of Genius so together we're better
prepared to navigate professional
pitfalls leading to more responsibility
faster promotions and bigger impact
Guided by world-class programming and
facilitation sidebar enables you to get
focused tactical feedback at every step
of your journey if you're a listener of
this podcast you're likely already
driven and can it's a growth a sidebar
personal board of directors is the
missing piece to catalyze that Journey
why spend a decade finding your people
when you can meet them at sidebar today
jump the growing wait list of thousands
of leaders from Top tech companies by
visiting sidebar.com Lenny to learn more
that's sidebar.com Lenny
this episode is brought to you by Wix
Studio your agency has just landed a
dream client and you already have big
ideas for the website but you have the
tools to bring your ambitious Vision to
life let me tell you about Wix Studio
the new platform that lets agencies
deliver exceptional client sites with
maximum efficiency pal first let's talk
about Advanced design capabilities with
Wix Studio you can build unique layouts
with a revolutionary grid experience and
watch as elements scale proportionally
by default no code animations at Sparks
of delight while adding custom CSS gives
total design control bring ambitious
client projects to life with any
industry with a fully integrated Suite
of Business Solutions from e-commerce to
events bookings and more and extend the
capabilities even further with hundreds
of apis and Integrations you know what
else the workflows just makes sense
there's the built-in AI tools the on
canvas collaborating a centralized
workspace the ReUse of assets across
sites the seamless client Handover and
that's not all find out or at wix.com
Studio
Maya thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast thank you so
much for having me you and I have been
trying to get together for almost a year
now oh man but it all worked out and
it's gonna be very worth it you had a
kid I took parental oh right that is
that is true man overlapping kid
journeys I also been just like really
looking forward to this chat partly
because you're amazing and partly
because it just feels very meta to have
the head of product of Spotify
podcasting on the podcast and uh I
imagine many people are listening to
this on Spotify so there's this like I
don't know Turtles all the way down
situation happening I totally agree I
was thinking the same thing when I Was
preparing for it where it's like so much
of what we have to talk about is So Meta
and then we also have you and I know
each other because you've been sending
me feedback about the podcast experience
on Spotify so um lots lots of circular
stuff there speaking of spotify and
podcasting clearly you've done an
incredible job building podcasting on
Spotify from what I've read it's the
number one podcasting platform now is
there stat you could share by just the
percentage of the market share
essentially of Spotify podcasting I
think I think are now officially over a
third of global market share of podcast
listening which is pretty insane that is
insane yeah also I think on the hosting
side it's an even bigger number yeah
there's that you can share by just like
maybe new podcasts that are launched and
how many are hosted on Spotify yeah so I
think at this point it's more than 75 of
all new shows on Spotify are hosted with
Spotify for podcasters which used to be
anchor when we were acquired by Spotify
I think anchor had already gotten to
like 40 of all new podcasts or something
crazy so yeah insane okay so for these
reasons I want to spend the time that we
have together unpacking how you operate
as a product leader and essentially what
you've learned about product org
leadership growth and all those things
how's that sound that sounds perfect my
favorite topics okay let's do it so as a
first question I asked APM who actually
works for you uh Wilma Chu what to ask
you and the first thing that came to
mind for her was this idea of dog
fooding and how important dog fooding is
to your way of operating as a product
leader as an example you have three of
your own podcasts uh on Spotify and I
checked them out and they're all very
highly rated so you know they're not
just like podcasts they're real
people actually listen and enjoy them so
my question to you is just Why is dog
fooding so important to you how do you
actually operationalize it and then also
maybe just talk about these podcasts
that you have sure well I can talk about
them forever so be careful because I'll
take off the whole hour with that but I
actually have four podcasts
there's two that I don't update as much
anymore so I am my first ever podcast
was about Stephen King books I'm a big
Stephen King Super Fan so when I joined
anchor and we weren't even fully podcast
yet if you recall we were sort of like
something else audio we were trying to
avoid being podcast for a while and then
we decided to just do podcasts but when
I got into audio and trying to help
audio creators the first thing I did was
make my own podcast because I was like I
know nothing about production or what it
feels to even be a Creator in that way
and so you know I started my Stephen
King podcast because that is the number
one thing that I just love to talk about
every day which is one of my tips for
podcasters if you're trying to figure
out what to make a show about it's what
can you talk about forever so I did that
one for a while I actually like I spent
a ton of time editing it I spent a ton
of time on SEO and marketing it and it
got to the point I think at its peak I
was getting like 5 000 listeners an
episode which now seems small for a
podcast I know that's very good like
yeah like for a test podcast that I was
just doing to learn how to do my job I
was like I was so excited to get that
audience and I fell off because well
mostly like I had a kid I joined Spotify
my life's really busy and like that
level of production is so hard to do if
it's not your full-time job but I still
get emails all the time from people who
are like please bring it back I never
found another great Stephen King because
I really got deep into the books and
like the connection between the books so
that was one of them the second one I
did uh I was still going today so my
husband and I have this big brother
podcast the show big brother it's
terrible like I would not recommend
listening to my podcast unless you are a
big brother super fan and I actually
started that one because I wanted to get
the other end of the spectrum where
something we were really focused on with
anchor at the time was you know
first-time creators really growing the
pie of podcasters and specifically we
had this this theory that the the
podcast creation of the future would be
mobile first and we had this really like
high-powered mobile app and so I I was
like I'm gonna make a podcast that's
fully mobile not highly edited not worry
about making something that sounds like
a traditional podcast and I really
leaned into all the anchor features so
it's fully recorded on my phone I I do
almost no editing but I think the thing
that's kept us going because it's been
like six or seven years now we've been
doing the show it's really the community
like the people who call in I have no
idea who these people are I have no idea
how they found this terrible show but
they love it they call in every week and
that I think is one of the many things
I've learned from dog fooding you know a
podcast creation app is like that
Community piece is so important like if
you don't know if anyone's listening if
you don't know what they like about it
if you don't know if they're coming back
it's so hard to keep investing the time
and then I made a show uh my my least
known podcast because it only got like
25 listeners per episode it's about my
favorite book of all time called
children of time it's actually a Trilogy
and the reason it got almost no
listeners is because there were tons of
spoilers in the podcast and the book is
like 800 pages long so we were like do
not listen if you haven't read the book
so it was very Niche but I think it's a
really good podcast if you've read
children's time and then my last one I
just started doing a couple years ago is
about parenting so I have a son who's
two and a half now and we sort of have
been documenting our journey as parents
all the way from we went through IVF so
starting with sort of like fertility I
have a really fun episode about
childbirth if people are interested in
that sort of thing and then ever since
then it's just been episodes about the
transition to Parenthood which has not
been particularly easy for us and now my
son's a toddler so lots of fun things
happening there you're not there yet but
you will be and then you can listen to
my toddler episodes I gotta listen to
like the next a few months ahead to
learn yes yes I think that's a good
tactic yeah before we talk about dog
fooding uh have you ever considered
going full time on this stuff it's
always like an option for people and
clearly you've done great dude like at
least two podcasts you're killing it I
have not and I think it's just um
it's so funny because I uh you know I
with my parenting podcast too and even
my terrible Big Brother podcast like I
get compliments all the time and people
are like I love listening to this like
you're you and my husband also is like a
really funny and a really good podcaster
but I I don't know why I don't think of
myself as a Creator I think to me it
still feels like this exercise where
it's like I'm making my podcast but I'm
really doing it so that I can like learn
about our product and get in the mindset
of a Creator so I think the problem is
I'm just too much of a product person
like it's more it's a means to an end
for me instead of the the end itself but
that is an interesting question because
I I know most people who podcast like
their ultimate goal is obviously to be
able to do it full time and I that is
interesting that I yeah you have a good
backup plan of things if anything I
guess so yeah Thrills awesome okay just
coming back to this idea of dog fooding
where does that come from for you what
have you learned about just how to
execute that it's just always been my
natural state I've had a handful of
different product jobs and I I guess
they've all been sort of tangent
eventually related to helping creators
or creative people and so I think for me
it's like I don't know how you can build
those tools if you don't understand that
mindset I'm not surprised that it came
to Wilma's mind when you asked her what
to ask me because I am constantly
yelling at my product team who do not
have podcasts and being like I really
don't think that you can build the right
things if you're you know they talk to
users all the time they see the data but
all of them once they finally start
doing their podcast they're like I get
it like something clicked and now I feel
like I really understand what they need
and I think I guess like building tools
for creators is similar to building a
B2B product where you really have to
understand it's someone's business it's
their livelihood and so I think if
you're just looking at a list of feature
requests you're not necessarily going to
prioritize it in the same way as if you
deeply feel those problems and I think
for me I I don't know if I mentioned
this to you but I when I first got into
Tech I started in Customer Support like
that was how I got into product and so I
think I just am a very user focused
product person
um I think there's different schools of
thought for product and for me it's
always been about you know making people
happy making their experience better
solving real problems in their lives and
so for me like becoming one of the users
I think it's made it so much easier for
me to advocate for that being you know a
pretty big chunk of the road map because
I think if you don't have that
especially coming from someone in
leadership it's so easy to just fall
into that trap of like well we're
working on the next big strategic thing
which is two years away and then in the
meantime your users are getting no value
and then they're just going somewhere
else so I don't know I think it's just
it's it's really important to me um it
makes sense to me and I also I'm not
sure how else I would do product I've
never really not done it that way
reminds me of Airbnb Brian was a huge
advocate of on the host side of the
product is like you need to be a host
but many people couldn't because they
didn't have a place that could be hosted
is there anything you've learned about
just how to make this a thing that
actually works effectively a way to
operationalize this for people sitting
there like oh I should start encouraging
my team to do I'm constantly reminding
our team to do this and then we I think
that also comes from the other people
who are doing it so like we really
Elevate the people on our team who have
their own podcasts we help them tell
their stories internally whenever we do
an off-site or like any sort of Team
activity we'll always incorporate
podcast creation or like some way of
making sure everyone on the team is
using the tools I think also I don't
know I think a lot of it just comes from
I'm so vocal about this stuff like the
other night I was recording a podcast
and I dm'd one of the engineers on our
team and told them about this like tiny
little iOS bug and he was like why are
you dming with me about this at like
nine o'clock at night I think I was also
supposed to be on vacation I can't
remember but then it's like he got the
bug fix the next day and so I do think
like making that something that's really
top of mind for the team that we do need
to fix problems that these things matter
I don't know I always listen to the
podcast that my team makes so it's sort
of like I know they're going to get at
least one listener and then I think also
I try to um I think because I understand
a big part of building tools for
podcasters is understanding all the
barriers to entry like it's actually a
really difficult thing trying to get
someone to put their voice out there
share their story it's a really kind of
emotional journey and so I feel like
I've tried to turn some of the things
that I've learned about podcasting into
I've never written it down maybe I
should but I have sort of a like a
Playbook that I'll tell people when
they're considering making their own
podcast so it's just things like don't
try and record by yourself find a friend
you know like that's a much easier way
to get into it or um you know don't
follow a script because then you're
going to feel really awkward and
uncomfortable and not feel good about it
afterwards or don't just record a test
thing for 30 seconds and publish it
because then you're not actually you
have to kind of make yourself feel the
pain that we're trying to understand in
our users what's cool about that is that
could turn into just like onboarding
education like basically your experience
of making a podcaster informs how to
help you podcasters become successful
totally yeah and I also I mean one of my
this is less about dog fooding but one
of my favorite things is like I'm always
just trying to convince everyone I meet
to start a podcast that's just become my
my annoying thing and so it's like if
I'm interviewing someone for a job or if
I'm at a party and mingling with people
it's like somehow the conversation
always turns to their passions and then
I'm like you should make a podcast about
it and then they're like well I can't
and then I work my way through all the
reasons they say they can't do it and
then they go start a podcast so I'm like
one person at a time I see how you're
growing the platform now yes exactly
unscalable hand-to-hand combat at
parties I get it okay
one thing you mentioned about being
maybe the only listen of your co-workers
podcast reminds me there's this platform
where you could find Spotify music that
has never ever been played once and you
could be their first play and just kind
of go through that is so cool it's like
very touching right yes I haven't seen
that and now I'm like how can we
productize that for podcasters that's
such a cool thing
anyway
another area that I've heard you're
really strong at and came up with Wilma
and a few other people I talked to is
you find a really good balance between
being very data driven and also very gut
driven and this is something a lot of
product leaders try to get better at and
so I'm curious just what have you
learned about try to find that balance
and also is there an example of
something where you kind of went against
the data went with your gut and it
worked out if you remember the old days
of the internet I feel like there was
really this different way of thinking
about product development where it was
so much more about what felt good and
what like made you sort of like feel
something as a user in that product and
so it's like we used to be a lot more
playful I think with software I think we
used to put a lot more emphasis on
things like delightful animations or
like fun little Easter eggs and I I'm
not sure when or where that got lost but
it feels like as product management as a
um as a role has gotten sort of
formalized and become a little bit more
scientific I'm generalizing but I think
a lot of product managers can be so
focused on like using the right
Frameworks and making sure that they
have the right road map and all of this
stuff and then it's like you find
yourself in this cycle where you're just
building things to build them and not
really thinking about the connection to
the end user you know I think data is
amazing and I'm like we have such an
incredible insights team at Spotify both
my my insights team and then the broader
one I think we are so so lucky and we
have so much
um knowledge about our users and
different cohorts and what people need
and what they're missing and so I think
that's extremely valuable I think where
people get into trouble is when they
think that they can rely solely on the
data and so what I spend a lot of time
talking to my team about is how we can
balance that so thinking about I guess a
couple General things I would say are
there right and wrong times I think for
both for your gut and for data and then
there are lots of different kinds of
data and different ways to use that data
so I think when you're in the Trap of
just sort of being like well this is
like the the process we always have with
insights and we're just going to run
this every time we have a feature like I
don't think you're going to have a great
time I think if you think of it as part
of the creative process as a PM where
you're like you know I have a hypothesis
I have some data that is helping me
understand that hypothesis in the first
place or form it in the first place then
I'm going to do some user research and
like try a couple things and see what
works for people then I'm going to make
sure that we have success metrics and
that we know like what we're looking for
when we launch then we're going to
follow et cetera so it's like I think
there's different different times and
places for like for all the different
types of data collection that you can do
the other thing I would say is uh
something that I have had to learn as a
leader especially at a part as part of a
larger organization you know when we
were a startup anchor was like 20 people
when we got acquired by Spotify and by
the way Spotify is my first big tech
company so I've always been at startups
so I've learned a lot about that but
when when I was leading product at a
startup it's like we're a small team
we're really focused on moving quickly
there isn't a whole lot of stopping to
ask like what data is supporting this or
it's just sort of like we talk to some
users and we're like great that's a
problem we're just going to go and fix
it and I think at Spotify there's
obviously at places like Spotify I mean
large organizations there's obviously a
lot more people that you need to
coordinate there's a lot of people you
have to influence that aren't on your
immediate team and so I think something
that I've had to learn is that being gut
driven isn't the same as just saying to
people I Told You So or like I believe
this so you have to do it there really
is an art I think to to balancing that
and I think that what I try to do is
always still as objectively as possible
explain why my gut is feeling that way
so it's like you can refer back to your
years of experience or other things that
you've done that have been similar you
can talk about your experience as a user
testing this stuff you can you can bring
in stories and anecdotes from users to
help back it up up and so I have found
that that works um obviously a lot
better and I think that in the the times
that either I have done this or I've
seen other leaders do it where they're
just sort of like well we're just going
to do it this way even if you guys don't
agree or if the data says something
different those projects are always
immediately doomed from the beginning
they're never going to work you can't
sort of drag all these people through
something that they don't believe in so
I think that like I would think of your
gut actually as a type of data and I
think it's a totally valid one and it's
just I think you need to be clear that
that's what you're working with but then
it should be taken as seriously as any
other data point so I try and think of
it that way where it's like this should
all ideally kind of work together and
obviously the more data you have and the
more types of data you have the more
convincing you're going to be and the
more right you're going to be so I think
it all helps there were so many of these
in the early days of anchor because I
don't even know I don't think we had a
data scientist until we were part of
Spotify so I think it was just sort of
Engineers like you know running queries
but we uh there were a couple times
where we had to kind of like move of it
move anchor from like 1.0 to 2.0 and
then from 2.0 to 3.0 we did these like
big I don't I don't like to call them
pivots but sort of like Evolutions let's
say of our product or our strategy
terminology also very important when
you're trying to convince people of
things so I think uh when I was thinking
about those big transitions for us as a
team I I think both times we have these
sort of like big moments with our teams
where we had to get everyone on board
with making these big changes so with
anchor 1.0 I don't know if you remember
but it was like actually similar to what
Clubhouse I think just rebranded to like
more um sort of like voice messaging and
short form and like more about
connections between people and that was
the first thing we ever launched and
people loved it like people were very
excited about it the data was all good
like we had extremely retained users we
anecdotally we're hearing all this stuff
from users all the time that they were
like staying up all night to use the app
people were meeting each other and
falling in love and getting married on
our platform like all of these really
kind of magical things and we were
seeing like the user base was growing
consistently but I think uh we had this
feeling and then when I say we I mean
mostly like Mike and I at the time Mike
was our our CEO that it just wasn't ever
going to be big enough and so
we have this really interesting moment
where the users were all telling us
there's no problem like we love this
product they were using it every day
they were coming back it was slowly
growing and we were just like this just
isn't going to get us to where we need
to be like our original goal had been we
wanted to democratize audio we wanted to
make it something where anyone could
easily tell their story and we were like
if we keep sort of digging ourselves
into this Niche that of a small number
of people really really love
that's great but that's not really like
the mission that we sent out set out to
solve and so the 1.0 to 2.0 transition
was I think actually pretty painful
because for all of those people who had
been invested in 1.0 like 2.0 didn't
work for them 2.0 was much more about
like content creation and making more of
like a radio station and it was less
about telling your personal story in
sort of close relationships and more
about kind of projecting and using
different tools anyway uh so we we made
that call I think pretty much just on
gut and it was like this is a business
decision like this is where we think the
the next phase needs to be when we built
anchor 2.0 it was a lot more like the
tools that we wanted to use even though
it wasn't what the user base was asking
for
so I think that's one example of like
sometimes your users are not gonna it's
that whole like users don't always know
what to ask for they don't always know
like what problems they need you to
solve for them and so I think you really
have to be able to like hear what's
behind it or really like even if the
data is looking okay think about if it's
heading to where you need it to go
before you move on that's actually such
an interesting story because it's so
hard to have a product that's working
that people love and decide to change it
completely many Founders are probably
stuck in this where they're just like
hey this is sort of work and we're
feeling some fit is there anything you
else you learned from that because
that's a really interesting insight and
worked out in your case clearly it it
absolutely worked out I mean I think it
was it was a terrifying transition you
know it's like it takes it took us at
the time it took us like a few months to
build a whole new app takes longer now
but the whole time we were building it
we were like we weren't sure if it was a
mistake you know and we would like go
back and forth and we would feel guilty
when we were talking to our users about
what they wanted us to be working on but
I I think it was one of those things
where as soon as we launched 2.0 it's
like our numbers started shooting up and
we started seeing like more kinds of
people were using it and people were
suddenly using it in the way that we had
always imagined like sort of as a
replacement for the old school you know
like very difficult to make traditional
podcasts I don't know I get I guess the
lesson is
you have to be able to sort of tell the
signal through the noise and even if
you've got lots of vocal users asking
for something we used to have this rule
um the 80 20 rule where it's like you
can't just build for that 20 I don't
think we made this up by the way I think
this is a common thing but we would
always refer to it and say like we want
to be building for the 80 and even
though the 20 are going to be more vocal
that's just gonna like get you deeper
into that whole of like that problem of
you're not really building for everyone
and I think particularly when you're
trying to build a creative platform
you're trying to democratize something
and you're real your target user is
everyone on the planet I think you
really have to be willing to kill your
dog Your Darlings uh and let things go
when they're not getting where you need
them to be that's probably the most
common cases something is working but
it's not working incredibly well what do
we do and so that's really interesting I
feel like the first thing you said there
is really important just like we had a
much bigger mission and vision and even
though this is working this is never
going to get there like there's no path
to building a massive business I do you
think that's so important and I give a
lot of credit to Mike and near our
co-founders I think were they really
knew what they wanted to do when they
started the company and they were they
were very firm on that and never never
varied that throughout the years
throughout the acquisition and so I do
think not everyone's goal is to build
like a massive you know multi-billion
Dollar World changing business like
that's okay if that's not your goal but
if that is your goal
you know you have to stick to it and you
have to it's really hard but you have to
keep pivoting to get to where you want
to be Kill Your Darlings I love that
phrase I use it all the time I think you
had a second example I have other a
couple other questions about anchor but
did you want to share another I can just
quickly my second example was so we
actually had to do it again so we went
from anchor 1.0 to 2.0 we were like that
was totally the right call um and then
anchor 2.0 we were still in this phase
where we we would always joke about it
because people would be like oh it's
kind of like making a podcast and we
would be like it's not a podcast because
we're trying to be bigger than podcasts
right because we were like at the time
2015 there were still so few people
podcasting it was still so so hard to do
and so we originally were really stuck
on this idea that like podcasting was
going to be limiting and that we wanted
to be the next thing in the early days
of anchor we had all this like nautical
terminology so we would call them waves
and I don't remember what else but we
had like cute nautical terms for
everything because we were trying to
resist podcasts and and podcaster and
those things and when we launched anchor
2.0 we started getting all of this
really great traction and the no number
one feature request that we got from
people is they were like great I love
using these tools and then I want to
export it as a podcast and publish it
you know and get people listening that
way and we resisted it for probably I
don't know six months or something and
we were like absolutely not that's not
what we're doing and I think that one
was such an interesting lesson because
we had just sort of learned that we did
the right thing by not listening to our
users so for a while we dug in and we
were like that's not the direction we're
going in they don't know what they
actually want and then when we decided
you know I think we started with like oh
we'll do a little test and let people
export as podcasts and see what happens
and when we look back at our data that's
the moment when we saw the beginning of
that hockey stick growth where it's like
we had been growing we had been doing
well and then you zoom out and you're
like okay that was very clearly the
thing we were missing yet again we had
to sort of like stop what we were doing
we rebuilt the entire app we built it
around RSS and podcasting and being able
to export and we actually did some
really cool things to make it really
easy for people to publish their podcast
everywhere and uh yeah so I think that
was really the moment that it took off
and I think it's so interesting putting
those two things together because it was
kind of the opposite thing the second
time that we had to give up on a piece
of what we we had thought was so
inherently true about our business and
so I don't know I don't know what lesson
to tell people to take away from that
other than like I think you have to just
stay especially in a startup mentality
like you have to stay willing to be
flexible and like take in new
information and new data points like as
your product matures and as your user
base changes there's gonna be new things
that you learn that are going to change
how you think about it and I think again
like the one thing that was unwavering
for us was our mission and everything
else was kind of mutable for us where we
were like whatever we need to do to get
there will work and I do think looking
back it's kind of astonishing How brave
we were that like we we kept sort of
finding some product Market fit and
being like nope that's not enough and
then moving to the next thing uh and I I
think that obviously yeah worked out
really well for us and meant that we
were able to do what we set out to do
and really democratize the medium and
make things a lot easier for a lot more
people I think another less and there's
just like try stuff like you said you
tried this export thing let's just see
what happens like no we don't think this
is where we need to go but let's just
try it and maybe maybe it'll work and
clearly that became the core of the
product platform and you also like you
never know what which of those tiny
product changes are going to end up
being this existential moment for your
business like you really have to kind of
keep your eyes open and be ready for
that to happen anytime especially when
you're still trying to figure out where
your where your place is going to be you
mentioned there was this feature that
made it easy to distribute your podcast
and this touches on a question that
actually asked Mike mcnano the CEO of
inker what to ask you and he's like uh
ask her about the story of how you made
that actually possible to distribute the
podcast to platforms and it ended up
being like a very unscalable solution
one of our uh our principles uh from the
very early days of anger was uh build
things that don't scale where we were
like we're you know we're a ridiculously
tiny team we're trying to do this really
big thing we had raised very little
money and so we were always just trying
to figure out like how can we sort of
hack into whatever like growth we're
we're trying to to make happen
so when it turned out that people wanted
to distribute their podcast everywhere
it's gotten a little bit easier but at
the time I'm sure you remember what
podcast distribution was like where it's
like uh there's all of these different
podcast platforms you have to manually
distribute to all of them Apple podcasts
in particular can be really difficult
for people who aren't tech savvy because
there's this whole like you have to
prove that you own your RSS feed you
have to know what an RSS feed is you
have to sometimes deal with 301
redirects like there's just all this
stuff that's like deeply technical in a
way that we were just like it doesn't
need to be and so one of the steps There
Was You know to submit your podcast to
Apple podcast you had to have an Apple
ID and there are a lot of people in the
world who don't have iPhones and so you
know we're building for everybody so
we're like how can we reduce that
friction we were obsessed with reducing
friction this was like our constant
battle and so we had this idea to
um we hired a couple of college interns
and we brought them in and we were like
people are gonna push push this magical
one button in the anchor app and they're
gonna say I want to distribute my
podcast and your job is going to be to
do all that same manual stuff manually
but to them it's gonna feel magical and
like it happened automatically I still
don't know how many people know this I
think people think that we had some
secret door like backdoor deal with with
Apple for distribution but we uh we just
had college students making apple
podcast accounts and then submitting
like hundreds of thousands of podcasts
through these accounts and that uh
resulted in lots of interesting
um Technical and relationship uh
situations it was a really interesting
thing and eventually like that didn't
scale eventually like we we stopped
doing that obviously but I think that is
such a cool example of like like the
importance of how you're packaging what
you're offering to people where if we
had said like you request distribution
and we'll have one of our team members
get back to you in three days and let
you know when you're on Apple podcast
that doesn't feel very magical or like
it's really saving you any time if all
you see as a user is you're hitting a
button and then 24 hours later you're
somehow magically on Apple podcast like
that was so much easier than manual
distribution was at the time and I think
that was a really big part of why we got
so much hosting market share so quickly
because it was such an insane benefit
over the other platforms which otherwise
had been sort of commoditized at that
point so uh it's funny now to think back
on that but I I think I think it's also
related to we were so good at being
willing to humor what seemed like stupid
ideas and try them and so uh I that is
something that I definitely recommend to
product people is like you know like let
yourself have the silly ideas we always
talked about yes and like when someone
has an idea like how can you build on it
and think about how it might work
instead of saying no that can't work
because and so we had a number of those
things where it was like nobody
understood how we were doing things so
differently and it was just because we
weren't afraid to do the uh silly
unscalable thing for a while I love that
story touches on two things one is I was
just doing an interview around how to
drive Word of Mouth growth and make that
a Big Driver of your growth and the main
message there is just make something
remarkable and knock people's socks off
that they're just like oh wow this is
crazy I'm gonna share with my friend and
it's such a good example that where
everyone's like wow that was easy I'm
gonna tell all my other friends that are
launching podcasts the other is I wonder
just how much of tech is built off of
college interns like the beginnings of
companies or like how important College
interns are to like technology and
innovation feels like there's always an
intern story yeah I know I think they
must be and for the record we paid them
very well these were not unpaid interns
just to be clear but no I think it is
amazing and I think it was also such a
cool opportunity like one of those
interns actually is still a PM on my
team today she ended up converting a
full-time after she graduated and I
think it's I remember you know like I
had a lot of cool College internships
and it's such a cool way to get exposure
to industries that you otherwise
wouldn't get to so I would definitely
recommend that college kids start with
like you know it's okay if that your
first job is sort of like a repetitive
not very exciting thing because if you
do a good job it will lead to something
very exciting I love that
imagine a place where you can find all
your potential customers and get your
message in front of them in a cost
efficient way if you're a B2B business
that place exists and it's called
LinkedIn LinkedIn ads allows you to
build the right relationships Drive
results and reach your customers in a
respectful environment
two of my portfolio companies webflow
and census are LinkedIn success stories
census had a 10x increase in Pipeline
with a LinkedIn startup team for webflow
after ramping up on LinkedIn and Q4 they
had the highest marketing Source Revenue
quarter to date with LinkedIn ads you'll
have direct access to and can build
relationships with decision makers
including 950 million members 180
million senior execs and over 10 million
c-level Executives you'll be able to
drive results with targeting and
measurement tools built specifically for
B2B in Tech LinkedIn generated a 2 to 5x
higher return on ad spend than any other
social media platforms audiences on
LinkedIn have two times the buying power
of the average web audience and you'll
work with a partner who respects the B2B
world you operate in make B2B marketing
everything it can be and get 100 credit
on your next campaign just go to
linkedin.com pod Lenny to claim your
credit that's linkedin.com pod Lenny
terms and conditions apply
so we've been talking about anchor and I
think what's really interesting about
anchor is it's one of the very rare
success stories of an acquisition
working out incredibly well like it was
a small startup now powering two-thirds
of all new podcasts it's pretty insane
so I want to spend a little time on just
what worked in making that possible so
let me ask first around the integration
piece just like how you integrated
successfully and then I want to talk
about just operationalizing making it
continue running successfully totally
yeah so the first piece just like what
did you do right to integrate anchor
into Spotify to make it effective and
continue working I think it's sort of a
combination of luck and hard work
because Spotify is genuinely an amazing
I mean you've met now a bunch of people
who I work with at Spotify including my
boss Gustav um it really is it's an
incredible company they're Swedish so
like just their mindset about everything
in the first place is kind of amazing
but they're also like I have been so
impressed that they are the the type of
company that can still move quickly and
make really big strategic decisions and
strategic shifts like it never feels
like they're slowing down and so I think
our our way of working sort of worked
with them and then I think the other
thing that we had to our benefit was
they really saw the same vision that we
had so it was like they also wanted to
change podcasting and make it more
democratized and make it more two-way
and bring it into the future and it was
so interesting because when we started
talking to them we had you know both of
us had this like chicken or egg
Marketplace problem where we had this
critical mass of creators they had a
critical mass at that point of consumers
but if you don't have both on the same
place then you're still stuck with like
the limitations of RSS feeds and so I
think we were both coming at the
acquisition with the same frustration
just from two different angles and so
both of us really saw that benefit in
joining up and so I think one of the big
ways we were lucky is that what I've
seen happen in a lot of Acquisitions is
you have sort of an idea of what you're
getting acquired for and you get excited
and really attached to that vision and
then when that Vision doesn't end up
fitting into the you know the company
strategy there's nowhere else to go
and I think in a lot of ways anchor did
you know really well fit into spotify's
culture and their roadmap but there were
many things that changed around that
initial vision and I think we were
really good at making sure that we
stayed valuable to Spotify like that was
one of our goals when we got acquired
where we were like we're you know we're
we're tiny startup people and we're like
We're Not Gonna Get You Know lost in
this big sea when we came in it was like
we were very vocal about everything that
we were doing like we did lots of
internal marketing and made sure people
were excited we built a lot of really
strong relationships like we made sure
that every team at Spotify knew about us
and what we were doing we were
constantly asking how we could help
other teams and when the strategy
shifted which it has you know dozens of
times since we've gotten acquired almost
five years ago we were not like we just
sort of blindly followed but we were
always like willing to get excited about
whatever the next thing was and willing
to be helpful and figure out how to make
that work and I think it actually goes
back to the like you know sticking to
the mission in the first place where you
know Spotify and we wanna like we want
podcasting to be able to be a huge
business for the industry like we think
it's been held back by a lot of things
for a long time and so you know we've
had various hypotheses about how we can
get there and we try things and if
something doesn't work we go on to the
next thing but that like that goal
hasn't really changed that makes a lot
of sense and I love the idea of just
like staying excited about the what is
happening I think a lot of Founders join
in they're like oh so annoying to work
in this big company oh man we had this
original plan it's just like not
happening and I think and even if you're
probably not even if you're not excited
I think it's effective to
communicate that you're excited and like
be on board and then you know shift
things in the direction you think maybe
he needs to go instead totally yeah okay
and then in terms of operating within
Spotify from what I understand
your team is still very startup e and
there's this like really fast moving
mentality what have you learned and how
do you do that how do you make that
happen within a larger company we've
definitely slowed down a little I will
say uh we it's I'm always joking about
um when we first got acquired I remember
we had to do this spreadsheet outlining
our roadmap and like estimate you know
are things like small extra large
whatever and spotify's definition of
small was something like a quarter and I
was like we've never built anything that
took more than three months and now it's
like now we build lots of things to take
more than three months you know
um but the first thing that comes to
mind so when we were a startup like one
of the first things we did when we were
only a few people
um we decided what our core values were
going to be
and I think they like maybe very
trivially have changed over the years
but we essentially still have the same
four core values that we decided on
seven or eight years ago now and when we
got acquired we had a conversation with
our team where we said you know we're
we're gonna of course Embrace spotify's
culture and spotify's core values but
we're not going to forget who we are as
a team and I think part of what really
and and one of our core values by the
way is move fast so that's something
that's like very deep within our DNA but
I think one of the things that helped
with that is Daniel Daniel ack when we
got acquired came and talked to our team
which was so cool and like so
motivational and one of the things he
said to us was you know we had a
reputation at the time for moving very
quickly even compared to other startups
like we were shipping a new feature
every two weeks it was sort of insane
and Daniel said to us not all not only
do I want you to not move slower like
that's part of why we're acquiring you
so that you can like move quickly but he
said I also want you to help me teach
the rest of Spotify how to move more
quickly and I found that so motivating
because I think I definitely had that
feeling going from startup to larger
organization where I was like I I had
this fear that it was just going to be
bureaucracy and and things moving so
slowly and I really loved that that was
one of his goals was that he was like I
want to make sure you know Spotify also
grew really quickly and he was trying to
figure out how to how to help them keep
moving as quickly as they used to and so
I think that's something that I really
took to heart and that I've continued to
remind my team of even to this day where
i'm like that's I think of that as part
of my job here to help people uh think
about how we can move quickly and what
really matters and I think at any large
organization there's obviously a lot
more complexities there's a lot more
stakeholders so to some extent it's
necessary to like slow down and be
thoughtful but I think the things that I
always try to push people on is like the
unnecessary things that slow you down so
I think that's what we spend a lot of
time on both within our team and when
we're collaborating with other teams at
Spotify because we work with basically
everyone at this point so I think that
was really cool that he sort of gave us
that that mission when we joined
on that note is there anything that has
been a real challenge or become really
annoying just like real talk about the
flip side of that you know everyone's
always like oh it's all working out
great is there anything you could share
that's just like oh wow that was really
hard and we overcame it or a real
challenge that we didn't expect I think
that the downside of of Daniel's advice
so one of the things he said to us he
was literally like say no to all the
meetings like you're gonna get invited
to all these like off-sites and meetings
and everyone's going to want to meet you
guys and they're going to want you to
come to all of these events and and
whatever and he was like just keeping
anger like just keep doing what you're
doing for like at least the next year
don't worry about what Spotify is doing
and on the one hand of course we loved
that as startup people where we're like
cool we're gonna get to you know stay us
within this larger organization but the
downside that we didn't really realize
until like a year later was that we
didn't really we weren't really able to
like build relationships we had some
culture problems where our team started
to feel like because they weren't part
of Spotify they had sort of some
existential like they didn't feel
attached to the work that we were doing
and so for like a year we operate on our
own we moved really quickly we were able
to get a lot done but then I think our
next phase had to be like really deeply
incorporating into Spotify and so like
we stopped calling our team anchor
internally we started collaborating more
with other teams and I think that is the
necessary trade-off is like the more
deeply you're embedded the slower things
are going to go but I think that has
been really amazing for making sure that
our team actually like felt like a part
of the larger mission that Spotify was
doing
and the the one other thing I'll say
that I found pretty striking so Spotify
as you know had did a lot of podcast
Acquisitions uh soon after the anchor
one and so I got to know a lot of the
other Founders and early employees who
have been acquired by Spotify and
something that I found with them and
just with other acquired Founders who
I've talked to since I don't know I feel
like people don't talk about this enough
publicly maybe people are somewhere and
I just haven't seen it I think that
people who get acquired especially
Founders actually go through a
relatively deep sort of like depression
and existential crisis after getting
Acquired and I never would have thought
like you know when you're talking to
people about getting acquired it sounds
like such an obvious posit like you said
it's like this amazing positive exit and
it was like it was objectively so good
for our team and for us and for our
users and for I think for the industry
and I I personally did not expect to go
through that because I you know it's
like of course you want an exit that's
what you're working towards that whole
time that you're a startup and I've talk
to a lot of these Founders and I I think
it is sort of a process I think that
everyone has to go through because
either you decide I'm going to stay here
and I'm going to do this for a long time
and I can make this work for me or
you're like I'm just a startup founder
and I this doesn't really work for me
and I'm gonna go do my next thing and so
I think to some extent that does sort of
some of the things we were talking about
I think do uh help shake out like
whether people actually want to make
those Investments and figure out how to
make things work at a big company but I
think the other thing that I found is
just like I think there isn't enough
support
um for that transition uh and I think
that for me like I've definitely landed
on the side of I love working at Spotify
I now am like so excited to be part of a
large organization and Building Things
at this scale but I really would have
loved to have been able to like talk to
someone about it or understand that
there were other people going through
that kind of thing so I don't know if
you want an example of how it's not all
rainbows and sunshine I definitely think
there were some dark times there and
I've since learned like everyone goes
through that just because
I think just by definition all the
reasons that you start a company are
like that means your personality is
someone who wants to be like having that
direct impact and and doing you know
uh having your own ownership and being
able to make things move quickly and
that is just so different once you join
a large organization yeah and those are
amazing examples I think what's
interesting with startup life is
eventually like if things work out well
you will either end up working for a
larger company like that's a likely
scenario if things that go great or
you're running a public company which is
also extremely painful and stressful yes
exactly yeah so the pets are hard no
matter what you end up doing as much as
you love that startup time I actually
went through the same thing when we sold
our company to Airbnb I was just like
man I had this life goal of starting a
company and now I've done it and now
what do I do and it was just like huh
okay I guess I gotta figure it out right
it's like who am I and I think the the
thing that I I think for me and it
sounds similar to you like I think I
didn't realize how much value I put in
the actual day-to-day of like survival
that comes with being part of a startup
like that becomes almost your like your
reason for being in like I gotta make
this work and I gotta keep the team
motivated and you're just like going
going and then when everything is
suddenly
stable you're like wait what like what
is my job now I saw a tweet actually
recently I forget who tweeted this that
CEOs that exit and go on vacation end up
being more stressed and less healthy
than running a really high stress high
growth company that is wild I get it
though yeah
although I will say when I joined Airbnb
and was just like the PM of our team
working on one thing it was like this is
really cool I have to worry about
everything all the time there's a really
nice relief to that but but yeah there's
like a life existential question you're
just like wow he did the thing what am I
totally what else like there's usually
not like a goal beyond that totally what
was it for you was it that was it the
feeling of I had this thing that I was
running and now I don't I think it was a
little bit the fear of being sort of
like a Coggin in the in a wheel which is
not actually how I feel like now that
I'm now that I work at Spotify and I
think the other was like you were doing
great like we already were were killing
it at podcast hosting and also it was
just so fun you know like I I really
valued that like small company everyone
knows each other we're like doing really
hard work but we're also having so much
fun and I think it felt like I couldn't
translate that to a large organization
where I was like okay now I have to do
things how they do and then I think what
actually ended up happening is like I
actually love how Spotify runs their
company and I'm still able to run my
team the way that works for me and so I
think it just goes back to like knowing
what you care about sort of like being
really solidly attached to your own core
values
um and and being able to take that with
you I think we're both examples of
people that were startup people and then
realized it's not so bad working in a
big company like I stayed Airbnb for
seven years I was like no no way I'm
going to be here for more than a year
and a half I know or a year or two how
long have you been at Spotify at this
point I'm going on five years yeah so
it's like yeah like I think this is just
a example of it's you think you're not
going to enjoy working a larger company
but often times it's actually pretty
great yes a lot of different reasons yes
shifting in a slightly different
direction just kind of thinking about
leadership and what you've learned to
lead teams lead large orgs build
products they're only just like I don't
know Frameworks or tools that you found
to be effective the big one for me is um
radical Candor and this I'm just I know
my team watching this is gonna laugh at
me because I talk about this every day
they're tired of hearing it but um have
you read it I have I love it it's yeah
it's like my all-time favorite book and
I think it just it really shifted for me
how I honestly like how I relate to
people in general but I think especially
with managing giving feedback being able
to collaborate and sort of like you know
push back in a direct way direct and
constructive way on on peers and that
sort of thing so I make all of my
managers on my team read it we talk
about it constantly in our team and I
think that the the general concepts for
anyone who's not familiar is you need to
care personally and challenge directly
and if you're only doing one of those
things you're not giving feedback in an
effective way and the book just talks so
much about the importance of feedback
and how feedback is a gift which I have
now come to completely agree with it's
like anytime I've given someone
effective feedback it's always well
received even if it's tough to hear
people want to get better and they want
to know they want to know how they can
improve and so I think any time that you
can give them specific feedback in a way
that makes it clear that you care about
them and want them to be able to reach
their goals I think it makes makes them
stronger it makes your relationship
stronger
and I also think the the one other big
thing I took away from radical Candor
was when it comes to people like not
underperforming it really reframed how I
think about that because it's like
people are not generally inherently bad
or lazy or ineffective it's almost
always because the role they're in is
the wrong fit and so being able to
approach the conversation in that way
means that you can like come at it and
in a caring way that lets them know you
actually want them to be successful and
what I found is when you have the
conversation in that way they're much
more receptive to it and then you're
able to either actually resolve the
issues or you're able to help them
figure out what the right fit is for
them which I think as a manager is so
it's so inspiring to me because that
means that you get to keep mentoring
them Beyond like you're not just sort of
saying this isn't working I'm giving up
on you see you later you're saying I'm
committed to helping you throughout your
whole career and like let's help you
find the next step even if that isn't on
my team or at this company awesome yeah
I love that book and you talked about
the two there's like this uh grid that
the quadrants yeah it talks about and
just the reinforcement you said like the
core is that when you you want to give
people direct feedback but you want to
make it clear you care deeply about them
and I love that there she talks about
like if you do one of these wrong here's
what happens like if you challenge
directly but it doesn't feel like you
care deeply they're just you're just
like an and they're just like uh
God damn you get really defensive I
should get her on this podcast how cool
would that be oh my God that would be my
she's like my if I could meet one Tech
celebrity it would be her okay I'm gonna
work on if you're listening and you know
Kim Scott let me know I will try to get
out get to her anything else in that
bucket of Frameworks or tools things
that you find really helpful in
leadership the only other one I'm not
I'm not a huge framework person I think
this goes back to my gut thing but the
one other thing that I um refer to often
is I love the Eisenhower Matrix which is
also known as the 4ds so it's like do
defer delegate delete like you have the
also quadrants maybe my brain just works
in quadrants I don't know but I uh
totally subscribe to that and I that's
how I do everything where it's like I
write everything down at the end of
every day I go through and I either do
delegate defer delete and it really
helps you clear a lot of stuff out of
your brain interesting so do you so you
kind of don't even use it as a grid
necessarily it's more make a decision on
all the things on your plate yeah I do I
just use I tried using the grid View and
it didn't work for me for some reason so
I just use a to-do list and then I I
don't let myself finish working until
I've gone through anything I didn't get
through that day and then I know what I
have to do the next day so that touches
on another area I wanted to touch on
which is productivity I hear you're very
good at being productive and making the
use of your time I guess one where do
you think that comes from and then two
just any other tips tactics tools you
find to be really effective in staying
productive yeah where does that come
from I think I am sort of OCD I think
I'm an overachiever
um I don't know it's really important to
me I think when my team says that I'm
very productive I what the feedback I
hear from them is they're impressed that
like they send me a doc and then I
always read it like I think that's more
about kind of prioritizing my team and
making sure that they're unblocked which
I take very seriously I don't know other
tips that I would give people I write
everything down because I think I'm one
of those people I remember things best
when they're written down and then I
obsessively put things on my to-do list
like anything that anyone asked me to do
goes on there and then I have that
method for organizing it later in the
day do you have an app for this or do
you write it on paper I use I use
todoist I think you can use any but I
it's the one that works best for me I
love using paper but then I really like
then if I don't have it with me then I
can't remember anything I have to do so
I've had to go digital awesome so it
sounds like a big part of your process
is just getting things out of your head
and writing it down somewhere yes I
think that's huge and I also think I
think if you're
in any sort of job I think most PMS have
this where it's like so much of your job
is actually like deep thinking and
problem solving I just cannot get that
done if I'm like running through my
to-do list in my head so I think that
was a big unlock for me when I realized
that I just needed to like anytime I'm
stressed honestly if I just sit and make
a list of all the things I have to do
I'm like oh it's like four things I can
get those done it's okay man that tool
of just making a list when you have
things you're stressed about all the
things you got to do just making a list
of it on paper I find it's so helpful it
works every time have you read uh
getting things done by David Allen it's
on my list I haven't read it okay like
that book totally transformed how I
think about productivity and you're
already doing a lot of what he
recommends it's like this very old book
and now he's just I don't know this very
he's like a public speaker dude that
just goes around Consulting yeah but
this one it has like very simple
approaches to being productive and it
really changed the way I operate and
you're already doing a lot of it so I
don't know how much value you get out of
it I'll read it I love this stuff a core
concept is this idea of mind like water
where you don't want to have anything in
your head you want to get it all out and
then there's these systems for how to
process all the things you're getting
out totally maybe you'll get David Allen
look at this we got a whole line I know
we had a whole Hit List
maybe it's just a final question you're
good at so many things another thing
you're really good at is public speaking
I was watching the last Spotify launch
event and I was just like holy moly
she's incredibly good at speaking and
there's something I want to get better
at and something I think 100 of people
want to get better at so I'm just
curious what have you learned about
being an effective public speaker
anything that you could recommend to
people if they're trying to get better
at this well first of all thank you for
saying I'm awesome at so many things I
this is my favorite podcast I've ever
been on because you're just
complimenting me the whole time so I'll
take it
I think with public speaking for me the
first thing that I had to do was decide
that I didn't hate public speaking
because I think it's just I think it's
human nature like it is it makes sense
that we do not want to be in front of a
crowd and we don't want to be performing
and we do like it's just sort of an
unnatural thing that humans I think make
ourselves do I remember I actually when
I was in high school I had to give a
presentation and I was like I I had so
much anxiety like I couldn't sleep the
night before and I remember I I was
getting ready for school that morning
and I was like I'm just not gonna hate
public speaking like I just can't get
through my life feeling this way and so
I just got up there and I had fun with
it and it was it felt so much better to
not feel worried about it so I think
ever since then I've been okay at it and
then um I have gotten lots of
opportunities to do like big scary
public speaking things for Spotify and
so I think I've I've had to get even
better
um I think my tips would be my biggest
one is probably uh reframing you know
it's like everyone has this anxiety
before they have to perform or they go
on stage reframing that anxiety to
understand that the the thing your body
is doing is surging you with adrenaline
to help you and so letting that feeling
wash over you instead of fighting it I
think has been so effective for me
because otherwise it can feel like a
panic attack and so I think you have to
be like cool my body's getting ready
we're excited we're gonna go do this on
stage like that that has been really
helpful I practice like a million times
anytime I have to do public speaking so
I think everybody has different
memorization tactics different ways of
doing speaker notes that work for them
and so I think part of it is you have to
do a bunch of public speaking to see
what works for you so some people work
best with no notes some people I almost
read like complete sentences because I'm
a good like I can enunciate things while
I'm reading so that works best for me
some people like bullets and then they
go a little bit off the script but I
think once you figure out what method of
speaker notes works for you I rehearse
probably like at least 10 times all the
way through once the speaker notes are
final and it's like you can practice
your exact delivery you can practice
where you're gonna put jokes in you can
figure out what doesn't feel natural or
where you're going to trip it up and
then you can change the words that
you're using and so I like to get to the
point where I can where I can remember
like ad-lib at least half of the notes
that I I have in there and that way I
know I'm going to feel confident like
coming off script I make a lot of eye
contact with the audience which I think
makes them think that I'm not reading
speaker notes or I think I think that's
really important if you can stand it
which I can't record yourself or watch
yourself in a mirror I just like it
messes me up more but I think for a lot
of people that can be really helpful to
figure out where your sort of issues are
I think the biggest thing for me
honestly is that like the unfair
Advantage I have is if you really give a
about what you're talking about you
are going to be such a better presenter
because people are gonna tell that you
they're gonna be able to tell that you
care and so I think even at a larger
Spotify event where it's like I'm
reading off a teleprompter and I'm
reading sort you know I'm I'm marketing
but I'm helping write those words and
then the way that I'm saying them
matters because I'm like I'm talking to
podcasters and I'm like my mission in
life is to make things better for you
not everyone gets that uh that benefit I
guess sometimes you have to do public
speaking about things that you're not
very passionate about but I certainly
think that that helps and I think
leaning into that so like when you can
telling personal stories letting the
audience get to know you I like to work
some humor into my presentations I think
that can really help as well that is
awesome advice I especially love the
letting the stress kind of wash over you
because that's that's like most of this
challenge your body's just doing all
this that's just like gonna totally
at you up and so the idea of just
like embracing it just flowing with it
yes it's a superpower it's like that's
so cool that adrenaline works that way
yeah okay I'm gonna try that and try
that one also if you're nervous you can
put your hands above your head that'll
help the blood I don't know it helps it
go into your head or something I don't
know there's this whole power post thing
that apparently yes exactly and I think
it's been disproven people are like no
there's no data that shows that right
but the blood thing that's really
interesting versus like psychological
benefit yeah I think there is a real
physiological thing that happens that's
cool okay amazing okay maybe as an
actual last question what's happening in
the future of the Spotify podcasting
platform anything you want to share
about where things are going a lot of
the things that I talked about at
streamon for anyone who saw that this
year I think are still very much our
strategy so I think for us in general
Spotify is really focused on making sure
that we can we have a massive audience
we have 500 million more than 500
million monthly active listeners we want
to help podcast creators reach that
Global audience and so it's really
important to us I'm I always tell my
team the biggest problem that I want to
solve for podcasters is Discovery and
audience growth and I really think we
can be the ones to do it so I'm really
excited about that so Discovery
monetization we're really focused on
making sure that creators of all shapes
and sizes can can make a living off of
their their work and then I think in
general we're working on so many cool
things at Spotify to make podcasts a
more interactive format something that
is more that allows you to get to know
your audience and connect with your fan
base we talked about a couple features
this past year I definitely can't say
anything specific but what I can say is
there's lots of really cool stuff coming
next year that I'm very excited about
and I would say for anyone who wants to
learn more definitely sign up for
Spotify for podcasters it works whether
you're hosted with Spotify or not and
you can start to get a sense of some of
those features that were opening up to
everybody but there's lots more cool
stuff to come amazing mysterious and
exciting uh with that we reached our
very exciting lightning round are you
ready yes what are two or three books
that you recommend most to other people
children of time and I guess I would say
it by Stephen King I recommend a lot of
Stephen King books but that's my
all-time favorite very on brand with
your podcasts makes sense what is a
recent movie or TV show that you really
enjoyed TV show I'll just say um I guess
poker face was the last one that really
blew my mind movies I mean Barbie was so
good and then I'll just give you like a
lesser known one I just watched this
crazy movie from the 80s that was made
the same year Home Alone was this just
got featured on a podcast so I think
everybody's talking about it now but
it's a horror movie about a kid who's
home alone and then he has to fight
Santa Claus and like home invasion
situation it is so good it's called it
has a bunch of different names but if
you look up either game over or it's
like code pair Noel something it's like
an old French horror movie so good
interesting that the other Home Alone is
the one like that did well in this one
no one said well there was apparently a
whole legal thing over it
they didn't have Macaulay Culkin that's
their missing piece
what is a favorite interview question
that you'd like to ask candidates when
you're interviewing I have one it is if
you can make a podcast about anything
what would it be and it is the best
honestly you should ask people that even
if you don't work in podcasting because
it tells you so much about candidates
and one thing that I feel very strongly
is that the most important thing is that
you're hiring passionate people not
people who are passionate necessarily
the thing that you're doing but about
anything if they can't think of anything
I would that's a red flag for me that's
awesome it's like a variation of the
question of teach me something or tell
me about something that you've learned
recently really interesting uh tweak on
that question and very appropriate
what is a favorite product or something
awesome you've discovered recently that
you really like digital or physical okay
very unsexy answer but I love 1-800
Contacts okay they have I'm just like so
impressed with their product team if you
need new contacts even if you need a new
prescription you can do the whole thing
online in like five minutes and it's so
well thought out and so like so
thoughtful I just I love them and then
the one other one I'll give a shout out
to since becoming a parent love every do
you subscribe to them absolutely I don't
know anyone that doesn't happen I know
it's so good they've cracked it yes yeah
we uh we're missing some of the toys and
so we're trying to find where they went
because he's he's ready for him he's
ready for the Rattle and we're like yes
awesome
yeah love everybody's amazing and their
ads are really great yes they're so good
what is a favorite life motto that you
come back too often share with folks
anything there
only a fool wishes time away
even if you're having a bad day even if
you're doing something boring or you're
stressed because you have to do public
speaking that's still your life and you
should enjoy it I love that there's this
phrase of just like I'm just killing
killing time right now and I always
think about that just like oh but you
don't have that much time yeah maybe you
shouldn't try to kill yourself even
though sometimes things are boring it
reminds me of another quote of just like
most of the world's problems are caused
by uh our inability to sit in a room for
10 minutes
and also if you're bored have a baby
because you'll never be bored again yeah
yeah
indeed speaking of parenting what is a
valuable lesson that your mom or your
dad taught you my mom always told me
that my generosity would be rewarded so
any time that I was like
nicer thought of someone else before me
she always made sure that I got like
some little reward or got to go out for
ice cream or something I think that
really worked on me
I love that final question I saw
somewhere that you raised backyard
chickens is that true I'm so happy you
asking about my chickens
so maybe just why did you decide to do
that on any tips for someone that may
want to explore them oh my god well we
should have started with this because I
can talk about this for an hour and a
half but I love my chickens I have eight
of them we've got one rooster and seven
hens
um I am just I think that all of us
should be a little bit closer to Nature
to the I was gonna say the food that
we're eating I'm not gonna eat my
chickens but they make eggs for me but I
just think there is something very
um
lacking in our modern lives that like
connection to Nature when I feel
stressed at work and I go outside and I
hang out with my chickens I go I like
pet them and I give them treats and we
talk to each other it's like nothing
makes me happier and like feel more
grounded than hanging out with my
chickens so I think everyone should have
chickens I would say uh they're pretty
low maintenance so if you're thinking
about it I would recommend it and if you
get chickens my favorite thing that I
did for them I got this monthly
subscription box for chickens called I
think it's called Coop crate that's
great for chickens yes it's love every
for chickens and every month they send
me like Chicken Treats but also like fun
little things for crazy chicken people
so it's like clothes or like a sticker
or like something funny it's like I'm
very into the whole chicken thing so
yeah oh my God uh maybe just a technical
question how much space do you need in
your yard for chickens not that much so
we let them free range we have we have a
pretty big yard um but I think they're
actual so there's like their little Coop
and then they've got a run that's fenced
in the run is maybe like I don't know
five feet by eight feet or something but
you can go a lot smaller if you go to
Home Depot they actually sell like
pre-made Coupes and runs I think if you
have a decent sized backyard they'll be
fine I've known people with pretty small
yards and you just let your chickens out
and they're happy to just they'll find
worms in a few yards you know oh man all
right new product to look into please
buy chickens do it okay Maya we've
talked about chickens dog fooding gut
level decisions radical Candor so many
things thank you so much for being here
two final questions working folks
finding online if they want to reach out
and how can listeners be useful to you
I'm on threads I guess and I'm on
LinkedIn I'm Maya fish on most social
social media and then I'm on LinkedIn
and then well second one how can people
be useful to me exactly
uh listen to your podcast on Spotify and
then send me your feedback I would love
to know either as a podcast Creator or
as a podcast listener always happy to
hear what Spotify can be doing more of
or better to help you out amazing Maya
thank you so much for being here thank
you so much bye everyone
thank you so much for listening if you
found this valuable you can subscribe to
the show on Apple podcast Spotify or
your favorite podcast app also please
consider giving us a rating or leaving a
review as that really helps other
listeners find the podcast you can find
all past episodes or learn more about
the show at lennyspodcast.com
see you in the next episode